5. Explain in brief ( Marks 10)
1. Swap memory.
2. Context switching
3. IPv4 address
4. IPV6 address


Answer:


1) Swap Memory

Memory swapping is a computer technology that enables an operating system to provide more memory to a running application or process than is available in physical random access memory (RAM).
When the physical system memory is exhausted, the operating system can opt to make use of memory swapping techniques to get additional memory.
Memory swapping is among the multiple techniques for memory management in modern systems. 
Physical memory alone is sometimes not sufficient, which is why there are different ways of augmenting RAM in a system with these additional options

2) Content Switching.

In computing, a context switch is the process of storing the state of a process or thread, so that it can be restored and resume execution at a later point. 
This allows multiple processes to share a single central processing unit (CPU), and is an essential feature of a multitasking operating system.
The precise meaning of the phrase “context switch” varies. In a multitasking context, it refers to the process of storing the system state for one task, 
so that task can be paused and another task resumed. A context switch can also occur as the result of an interrupt, such as when a task needs to access disk storage, 
freeing up CPU time for other tasks. Some operating systems also require a context switch to move between user mode and kernel mode tasks. 
The process of context switching can have a negative impact on system performance

3)Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4):

Each network that runs TCP/IP must have a unique network number. Every machine on the network must have a unique IP address. 
You must understand how IP addresses are constructed before you register your network and obtain its network number. 
This section describes IPv4 addresses. For information on IPv6 addresses, see IPv6 Addressing.
The IPv4 address is a 32-bit number that uniquely identifies a network interface on a machine. 
An IPv4 address is typically written in decimal digits, formatted as four 8-bit fields that are separated by periods. 
Each 8-bit field represents a byte of the IPv4 address. This form of representing the bytes of an IPv4 address is often referred to as the dotted-decimal format.
The bytes of the IPv4 address are further classified into two parts: the network part and the host part. 
The following figure shows the component parts of a typical IPv4 address, 129.144.50.56.s.
Network Part: The network part specifies the unique number that is assigned to your network. 
The network part also identifies the class of network that is assigned. In Figure 5–3, the network part occupies two bytes of the IPv4 address.
Host Part: This is the part of the IPv4 address that you assign to each host. The host part uniquely identifies this machine on your network. 
Note that for each host on your network, the network part of the address is the same, but the host part must be different.
Subnet Number: Local networks with large numbers of hosts are sometimes divided into subnets. 
If you choose to divide your network into subnets, you need to assign a subnet number for the subnet. 
You can maximize the efficiency of the IPv4 address space by using some of the bits from the host number part of the IPv4 address as a network identifier.
When used as a network identifier, the specified part of the address becomes the subnet number. 
You create a subnet number by using a netmask, which is a bitmask that selects the network and subnet parts of an IPv4 address. 
Refer to Creating the Network Mask for IPv4 Addresses for details.

4)Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6):

The IPv6 protocol is the next generation of large-scale IP networks by supporting addresses that are 128 bits long. This allows 2128 possible addresses (versus 232 possible IPv4 addresses).

Typically, the IP address assigned on an IPv6 host consists of a 64-bit subnet identifier and a 64-bit interface identifier. 
IPv6 addresses are represented as eight colon-separated fields of up to four hexadecimal digits each. The following are examples of IPv6 addresses:

2001:0000:0eab:DEAD:0000:00A0:ABCD:004E

The use of the “::” symbol is a special syntax that you can use to compress one or more group of zeros or to compress leading or trailing zeros in an address. 
The “::” can appear only once in an address.

For example, the address, 2001:0000:0dea:C1AB:0000:00D0:ABCD:004E can also be represented as:

2001:0:eab:DEAD:0:A0:ABCD:4E – leading zeros can be omitted

2001:0:0eab:dead:0:a0:abcd:4e – not case sensitive

2001:0:0eab:dead::a0:abcd:4e - valid

2001::eab:dead::a0:abcd:4e - Invalid

 

IPv6 uses a “/” notation which describes the no: of bits in netmask, similar to IPv4.

2001:eab::1/128 – Single Host

2001:eab::/64 – Network